_This project has been created as part of the 42 curriculum by ldecavel_

### DESCRIPTION

Call_me_maybe is a project which goal is to understand what is one tool an agent 
of famous AI services we know today could use internally. LLMs can use probabilities
to generate text but can't do the computing by itself. Thus this project is a way to
provide an LLM the ability to call functions and guarantee a good result. It uses a
wrapper provided by 42 around Qwen3-0.6B for encoding and decoding.

### INSTRUCTIONS

To install the project virtual environment :

```bash
make install
```

To run the program :

```bash
make run [ARGS=""]
```
> [!NOTE]  
> Command-line arguments are optional.  

To clean the files generated by the installation :

```bash
make clean
```

To check flake8 and mypy norms :

```bash
make lint
```

To check flake8 and mypy norms with strict flags :

```bash
make lint-strict
```

To run the program with the python debugger :

```bash
make debug
```

### EXAMPLE USAGE

```
usage: __main__.py [-h] [--functions_definition FUNCTIONS_DEFINITION] [--input INPUT] [--output OUTPUT]
                   [--log-level {INFO,DEBUG,ERROR}]

options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --functions_definition FUNCTIONS_DEFINITION
                        path to the function definitions JSON file
  --input INPUT         path to the input JSON file
  --output OUTPUT       path to the output JSON file
  --log-level {INFO,DEBUG,ERROR}
                        logging level
```

##### Example 1
Run the program specifying all files:
```bash
make run ARGS="--functions_definition examples/functions.json --input examples/input.json --output examples/output.json" 
```
##### Example 2
Run the program with default files and enable debug logging:
```bash
make run ARGS="--log-level DEBUG"
```

### ALGORITHM

I used both prompt augmenting and constrained decoding for my algorithm.

**Prompt augmenting** consists of modifying the given prompt to add context and instructions
to the AI. Since prompt augmentation can quickly hurt performance, I tried to strike a balance:
enough to help my program almost always find the right answer, but not so much that it makes
the prompt unnecessarily long. Thus, I chose to give the AI only the names of the functions it
can use, and to append "Answer: ", because otherwise it would keep asking questions related to the prompt.

**Constrained decoding** consists in restricting some tokens when decoding the AI answer to the prompt.
Since the output format is highly deterministic, the technique I chose to use is to encode a pattern 
string that includes the '<tool_call>' token. Thus, I simply have to follow the pattern and insert 
its tokens in AI's answer, and start generating only when I stumble on the '<tool_call>' token. 

These techniques allow my program to process each prompt in about 9 seconds while maintaining a good
success rate. To verify this, I benchmarked the program with various inputs and checked the accuracy
of the results. However, performance may vary depending on the computing power of the machine used.

### RESOURCES

The links below helped me understand constrained decoding. AI helped with debugging and testing.

[Aidan Cooper: Constrained Decoding](https://www.aidancooper.co.uk/constrained-decoding/)  
[Nvidia: Constrained Decoding](https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/triton-inference-server/user-guide/docs/tutorials/Feature_Guide/Constrained_Decoding/README.html)  
[Michael Breendoerfer: Constrained Decoding](https://mbrenndoerfer.com/writing/constrained-decoding-structured-llm-outputhttps://mbrenndoerfer.com/writing/constrained-decoding-structured-llm-outputhttps://mbrenndoerfer.com/writing/constrained-decoding-structured-llm-outputhttps://mbrenndoerfer.com/writing/constrained-decoding-structured-llm-output)  
[Chatgpt](https://chatgpt.com)  
